### I am going to build a model that can predict the price of a property based on certain aspects like, square feet(sq. ft), number of bedrooms, bathrooms etc.

### I am also going to build a website which will do price prediction for you.

### I will cover some of the core Data Science concepts such as Data Cleaning, Feature Engineering, Dimensionality Reduction, Outlier Removal etc.

### Tools and Technologies:
* Python
* Pandas for Data Cleaning
* Matplotlib for Data Visualisation
* Scikit-learn for Model Building
* Flask for Back-end server
* HTML, CSS, JavaScript for the website
---
### After quite some time, I have completed the model.
### The concepts that have been implemented by me:

* Data Cleaning
* Outlier Removal
* Feature Engineering
* One-Hot Encoding
* Cross validation of different models
* Saving my model to a pickle file

### I have also made an interactive website using HTML, CSS, Javascript.
### I have used Flask for the back-end server.

### I have used NGNIX as a web server in order to serve HTTP requests.

## Requirements to run the model(minimum versions mentioned):
* nginx (1.27.0)
* Flask (3.0.3)
* numpy (2.0.0)

## In order to run the model on your own system for the first time,
-> Clone the repository onto your local system.

-> Install nginx on your system and copy the files to "C:\Program Files".

-> Edit the "nginx.conf" file present in 
```C:\Program Files\nginx-1.27.0\conf" as an administrator.```

-> In location / root, remove the previous entry and enter the location of your ```client``` folder in quotes(" ").

-> In location / index, add the name of 1 more file named ```app.html```.

-> Above

```pass the PHP scripts to FastCGI server listening on 127.0.0.1:9000```,

add the following:

```
location /api/ {
    rewrite ^/api(.*) $1 break;
    proxy_pass {enter the link generated by your flask server(eg. http://xyz.a.a.b:abcd)};
}
```

-> Run your python flask server by opening up terminal/powershell(preferred) in your "server" folder and type:

```
python server.py
```

-> Then, run the nginx server from the ProgramFiles

-> Go to your browser of choice and type:

```localhost```

-> Your Price Prediction Model is working fine!

## In order to run the model on your system after you have set it up,

-> Run your python flask server

-> Run your nginx server from the ProgramFiles

-> Type: ```localhost``` in your browser

-> You can use the model however you want!

# I hope that you enjoyed this project
# Kindly star the repo if you liked it
# :)